# emissions

A simple app to calculate the approximate Carbon dioxide emissions
occurred when travelling between two cities based on the type of
transporation.


## Challenge Dev Notes

### Spring Boot with Maven

A spring boot project is used, which was generated by spring io initializer.

Maven handles the dependency management.

A docker file is added for ease of CI deployment and if someone prefers to
use docker locally instead of installing java.


### About AI support

AI was not used for direct coding.

Intellij Editor was used for development with no AI for autocomplete inline hints.

Intellij's formatter was used for formatting the code, which auto improved some data classes to records.

Google's AI Overview was unavoidable, but it helped with documentation and not for direct coding.

ChatGpt's AI was used to understand how to mock the rest client calls in unit tests.

## Requirements:

Java 21 is required on the system.

If not installed then download appropiate version
and follow the install guide:

https://adoptium.net/temurin/releases


## Installation

Navigate to the app folder and install the app with the following command

Unix:

    ./mvnw clean package

Windows:

    mvnw.cmd clean package

## Open Route Service API Key

The app requires API Key to access to Open Route Service APIs.

Create a free account with Open Route Service to get an API Key.

https://openrouteservice.org/

Store the API Key in an environment variable.

Unix:

    export ORS_TOKEN=key

Windows:

    set ORS_TOKEN=key

## Commands

Invoke help to see the options available

    java -jar target/emissions-calculator.jar --help

    Compute CO2 emission when travelling between two cities.
        Options:
        --start  Start city name
        --end    End city name
        --transportation-method  Type of transport used for travel

Where the transportation-method can be one of the following:

    diesel-car-small
    petrol-car-small
    plugin-hybrid-car-small
    electric-car-small
    diesel-car-medium
    petrol-car-medium
    plugin-hybrid-car-medium
    electric-car-medium
    diesel-car-large
    petrol-car-large
    plugin-hybrid-car-large
    electric-car-large
    bus-default
    train-default

To enable debug log:

    --logging.level.com.emissions.app=DEBUG

Example command:

    java -jar target/emissions-calculator.jar --start "Munich" --end="Berlin" --transportation-method=diesel-car-medium

## Run unit tests

Command to run the unit tests

Unix:

    ./mvnw test

Windows:

    mvnw.cmd test


To enable debug log:

    --logging.level.com.emissions.app=DEBUG

Example unix command:

    java -jar target/emissions-calculator.jar --start "Munich" --end="Berlin" --transportation-method=diesel-car-medium

## Run unit tests

Command to run the unit tests

Unix:

    ./mvnw test

Windows:

    mvnw.cmd test


## Docker

The app can be built and run insider a docker container.

Install docker

https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/

Build the docker image from the `/app` directory

    sudo docker build -t emissions-calculator:latest .

Run the docker with the key and the required command options

    sudo docker run -e ORS_TOKEN=<key> -t emissions-calculator:latest --start <city1> --end <city2> --transportation-method <transport>

Example command:

    sudo docker run -e ORS_TOKEN=<key> -t emissions-calculator:latest --start Munich --end Berlin --transportation-method diesel-car-medium


